#summary Configuration for MySQL
#labels Phase-Deploy

= 1. Requirements =

Mollify requires MySQL database with mysqli or PDO interface installed.

= 2. Preparations =

Before installing Mollify, you have to create MySQL user and database for Mollify, and grant the new user CREATE/INSERT/UPDATE/DELETE rights for the created database.

= 3. Configuration ==

== 3.1. MySQL database interface ==

{{{
<?php
	$CONFIGURATION = array(
		"db" => array(
			"type" => "mysql",
			"user" => "mollify",
			"password" => "mollify",
			"host" => "localhost", // optional
			"database" => "mollify", // optional
			"table_prefix" => "mollify_", // optional
			"charset" => "utf8" // optional,
			"engine" => "innodb" // optional, used only in installation
		),
		...
	);
?>
}}}

Values "host", "database", "table_prefix" and "engine" are optional. If these are not defined, it is assumed that MySQL server is running on localhost, database is called "mollify" and tables are accessed without name prefix.

With localhost database, you can also provide socket for the connection:

{{{
	"socket" => "/tmp/mysql5.sock";
}}}

Default MySQL engine used is InnoDB. With option "engine" you can change this (NOTE used only on installation).

{{{
	"engine" => "myisam";
}}}

== 3.2. PDO database interface ==

Alternatively you can use PDO database interface, for example:

{{{
<?php
	$CONFIGURATION = array(
		"db" => array(
			"type" => "pdo",
			"user" => "mollify",
			"password" => "mollify",
			"str" => "mysql:host=localhost;dbname=mollify",
			"table_prefix" => "mollify_", // optional
			"charset" => "utf8" // optional
		),
		...
	);
?>
}}}

= 4. Installation =

== 4.1. Installation with Installer ==
Start installation by opening following page into your browser: "`http://[URL_TO_MOLLIFY_BACKEND_DIR]/install/`", where `[URL_TO_MOLLIFY_BACKEND_DIR]` is the mollify backend folder where, for example, configuration.php and r.php are located.

Installer will check your configuration and system, and guide you through the installation.

== 4.2. Manual Installation ==

Database tables can be created manually by running script "`/include/mysql/sql/create_tables_[VERSION].sql`". For required parameters, run "`/include/mysql/sql/params_[VERSION].sql`" as well.

Before running these scripts, replace text `{TABLE_PREFIX}` with the prefix defined in configuration, or remove them if no prefix is used.

To be able to log into Mollify, you must create first admin user manually with following SQL:

{{{
	INSERT INTO [PREFIX_]user (name, password, permission_mode) VALUES ('[USER_NAME]','[PASSWORD]','A')
}}}

where `[USER_NAME]` is freely selectable user name, and `[PASSWORD]` an MD5 hashed password.

= 5. Finishing Installation =

After Mollify installation is over, open administration utility to configure users and published folders at `http://[URL_TO_MOLLIFY_BACKEND_DIR]/admin`