#summary Configuration in single-user mode
#labels Phase-Deploy

= 1. Configuration =

	To set up a single-user environment, make sure variable $USERS in file "configuration.php" is empty or not defined.

	For example:

	{{{ $USERS = array();}}}

= 2. Published Folders =

	Mollify supports freely selectable published folders, which need not to have any relation with each other.


	Use following format to define published folders:

{{{
$PUBLISHED_FOLDERS = array(
	[FOLDER_ID] => array("name" => [FOLDER_NAME], "path" => [FOLDER_PATH]),
	...
);
}}}

	For example:
{{{
$PUBLISHED_FOLDERS = array(
	"1" => array("name" => "Images", "path" => "/files/images"),
	"2" => array("name" => "Music", "path" => "/files/music")
);
}}}

	Rules are:
	  * Folder id's `[FOLDER_ID]` can be freely chosen, but they must be unique
	  * Path `[FOLDER_PATH]` must be absolute path in local file system
	  * Actual file system folder name is not shown to user, but instead the name `[FOLDER_NAME]` defined in the configuration


= 3. User Access Control ==

	Mollify supports configurable user access control for files. By default, when no configuration is done, users have read-only permissions to all files.

	File permissions can be granted in two levels:
	  * User default file permission
	  * File specific file permission

	Possible file permission values are:
	  * `RO` = Read-only (user can only download and view details)
	  * `RW` = Read and write (user can also rename and delete file)

== 3.1. User Default File Permission ==

	Default file permission applies to everybody, and it is defined with configuration variable `$DEFAULT_PERMISSION `.

	For example:

{{{
    $DEFAULT_PERMISSION = "RW";
}}}

	This will give all users read/write permissions, unless file specific permissions override this.

=== 3.2. File Specific Permissions ===

	Mollify supports file specific file permissions, which override any possible default permissions. File specific permissions are defined in folder level (no inheritance in folder hierarchy), with a user access control file (see [http://code.google.com/p/mollify/wiki/UserAccessControlFiles wiki page] for more information).

	Each folder has its own user access control file, which applies only to files in that folder.

	Each file can have permissions set to user id's:
	  * In single-user environment, only permissions given with id "`*`" are applied

	Example scenarios:
	  * Global default permission "RO", file has permission "`* = RW`": User will get read and write permissions
	  * Global default permission "RW", file has permission "`* = RO`": User will get read-only permissions