#summary File viewer plugin

= Introduction =

File viewer plugin is built-in plugin that provides file view and preview. Different file types are handled by viewers, which can be downloaded separately.

= Configuration =

Plugin is registered with name "FileViewer" as instructed in plugins wiki page.

File viewer has following settings:
  * "viewers"
  * "previewers"

Both list plugins and file extensions they handle, in format of '[PLUGIN_NAME] => [FILE_TYPE_LIST]'.

For example:

{{{
	$PLUGINS = array(
		"FileViewer" => array(
			"viewers" => array(
				"Image" => array("gif", "png", "jpg"),
				"TextFile" => array("txt", "php", "html")
			),
			"previewers" => array(
				"Image" => array("gif", "png", "jpg")
			)
		)
	);
}}}

For file viewer to work, add following setting:

{{{
	$SETTINGS = array(
		"host_public_address" => "http://YOUR_HOST_IP"
	);
}}}

Host ip is the address of the host without any paths, just the address. This is needed for file view urls.

= Viewers =

== Built-in viewers ==

=== Image ===

Provides image viewer for gif, png and jpg files.

Configuration:
{{{ "Image" => array("gif", "png", "jpg") }}}

=== Google ===

Provides file viewer for PDF, DOC and XLS.

NOTE! All sites using this service must agree to the [https://docs.google.com/viewer/TOS?hl=en Google Viewer Terms of Service]

Configuration:
{{{ "Google" => array("pdf", "xls", "doc") }}}

Using Google Viewer requires that files can be accessed from internet (as the Google service needs to download the file). When Mollify is used in a closed network (ie. intranet), this viewer cannot be used.

== Additional viewers ==

File viewer plugins are installed by unzipping installation package to "backend/plugin/FileViewer/viewers".
Additional viewers can be found from Downloads section with label "Viewer" [http://code.google.com/p/mollify/downloads/list?can=2&q=Viewer&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount]

=== TextFile ===

Provides text file viewer with syntax hilighting. Viewer uses [http://alexgorbatchev.com/wiki/SyntaxHighlighter SyntaxHighlighter] from Alex Gorbatchev. See ReadMe.txt in the package.

Configuration:
{{{ "TextFile" => array("txt", "js", "css", "xml", "html", "xhtml", "py", "c", "cpp", "as3", "sh", "java", "sql", "php") }}}

=== JPlayer ===

Provides music player for mp3 and ogg files, and uses [http://www.happyworm.com/jquery/jplayer/ JPlayer] by Happyworm. See ReadMe.txt in the package.

Configuration:
{{{ "JPlayer" => array("mp3") }}}

=== FlowPlayer ===

Provides video player for flv and f4v files, and uses [http://flowplayer.org/ FlowPlayer] by Flowplayer Ltd. See ReadMe.txt in the package.

Configuration:
{{{ "FlowPlayer" => array("f4v") }}}

= Previewers =

== Built-in previewers ==

=== Image ===

Provides image previewer for gif, png and jpg files.

Configuration:
{{{ "Image" => array("gif", "png", "jpg") }}}

== Additional previewers ==

File previewer plugins are installed by unzipping installation package to "backend/plugin/FileViewer/previewers".
Additional previewers can be found from Downloads section with label "Previewer" [http://code.google.com/p/mollify/downloads/list?can=2&q=Previewer&colspec=Filename+Summary+Uploaded+Size+DownloadCount]
