#summary Mollify plugins

= Installing plugins =

Plugins are installed simply by downloading the plugin package and unzipping them into "backend/plugin" folder.

Plugins are registered with a variable PLUGINS in configuration.php:

{{{
$PLUGINS = array(
	[PLUGIN_NAME] => [SETTINGS],
	...
}}}

Plugin name is the same as the folder name in the installation package. Settings are plugin specific options, or empty array.

For example:

{{{
$PLUGINS = array(
	"MollifyPluginFoo" => array("foo_options" => "foo"),
	"MollifyPluginBar" => array()
}}}

Whenever plugins are installed or updated, open the Mollify updater util to check if database update is required.

= Built-in Plugins =

== Event Logging ==

Provides event logging feature.

=== Configuration ===

{{{
	$PLUGINS = array(
		"EventLogging" => array("logged_events" => array("filesystem/", "session/"))
}}}

Note! Setting "logged_events" is optional, by default all events are logged.

== User Registration ==

Provides user self registration.

=== Configuration ===

{{{
	$PLUGINS = array(
		"Registration" => array()
}}}

== File Viewer ==

Provides file view and preview.

=== Configuration ===

Two settings, "viewers" and "previewers". Both list viewer/previewer plugins and file extensions they handle. File viewer/previewer plugins are installed by unzipping installation package to "backend/plugin/FileViewer/viewers" or "backend/plugin/FileViewer/previewers".

{{{
	$PLUGINS = array(
		"FileViewer" => array(
			"viewers" => array(
				"Image" => array("gif", "png", "jpg"),
				"Google" => array("pdf", "doc", "xls"),
				"TextFile" => array("txt", "js", "css", "xml", "html", "xhtml", "py", "c", "cpp", "as3", "sh", "java", "sql", "php"),
				"FlowPlayer" => array("f4v"),
				"JPlayer" => array("mp3")
			),
			"previewers" => array(
				"Image" => array("gif", "png", "jpg")
			)
		)
	);