#summary All available settings

= Backend settings =

Following settings are available in backend (and their default values):

{{{
$SETTINGS = array(
	"debug" => FALSE,						// debug mode
	"timezone" => NULL,						// server timezone
	"host_public_address" => NULL,					// host public address
	"email_login" => FALSE,						// allow email login
	"session_name" => NULL,						// Mollify session name
	"enable_limited_http_methods" => FALSE,				// limited HTTP methods
	"support_output_buffer" => FALSE,				// support for output buffer
	"mime_types" => array(),					// MIME types
	"enable_file_upload" => TRUE,					// enable file upload
	"enable_folder_actions" => TRUE,				// enable folder actions
	"enable_file_upload_progress" => FALSE,				// enable file upload progress
	"enable_change_password" => TRUE,
	"enable_description_update" => FALSE,
	"enable_permission_update" => FALSE,
	"enable_public_links" => FALSE,
	"enable_mail_notification" => FALSE,
	"enable_retrieve_url" => FALSE,
	"enable_zip_download" => FALSE,
	"zipper" => "ZipArchive",
	"allowed_file_upload_types" => array(),
	"firebug_logging" => FALSE,
	"mail_notification_from" => "Admin",
	"new_folder_permission_mask" => 0755,
	"convert_filenames" => FALSE,
	"mail_notificator_class" => "mail/MailNotificator.class.php",
	"url_retriever_class" => "UrlRetriever.class.php",
	"datetime_format" => "d.m.Y H:i:s",
	"authentication_methods" => array("pw"),
	"ldap_server" => NULL,
	"ldap_fqdn" => NULL,
	"upload_temp_dir" => NULL,
	"enable_thumbnails" => TRUE,
);
}}}

== Debug mode ==

Enables backend debug mode. This writes debug information to PHP error log, and enables debug url for retrieving debug information without having to access server logs. Possible values are TRUE and FALSE (default).

== Server timezone ==

Server timezone, needed for PHP datetime functions. Without this information, some functions may fail. For values, see [http://php.net/manual/en/timezones.php]

== Host public address ==

Public address to the server or the site where Mollify is used. If not given, Mollify uses the PHP variable HTTP_REFERER to determine this. Some servers don't provide this, and all requests will fail until this is defined. The value is the URL for the site root including the protocol, but not any page, for example "http://www.yoursite.com"

== Limited HTTP methods ==

Mollify uses REST API for client/server communication. This uses all HTTP methods, ie. GET, PUT, POST and DELETE. Some servers don't support other methods than GET and POST, and in this case Mollify must be configured to use limited HTTP methods. Possible values are TRUE and FALSE (default).

== Support for output buffer ==

If web server is configured to use output buffer, set this option to TRUE, and it will flush buffer on file downloads. See [http://www.php.net/manual/en/function.ob-flush.php]

== MIME types ==

File downloads may require special MIME type in order to be processed correctly. Mollify has few predefined common MIME types, but this variable allows setting custom types.

Mime types are defined by the file extension, for example:

{{{
	$SETTINGS = array(
		"mime_types" => array("avi" => "video/divx", "wav" => "audio/x-wav")
	);
}}}

== Enable file upload ==

By default, file uploads are enabled, but setting this to FALSE you can disable file uploads.

== Enable folder actions ==

By default, folder actions (copy, move, delete) are enabled, but setting this to FALSE you can disable folder actions.

== Enable file upload progress (basic uploader) ==

Basic HTTP file uploader can support file upload progress, if server has installed APC (Alternative PHP Cache), see [HowToEnableUploadProgressDisplay wiki page] for more information. By default, file upload progress is disabled.

* More setting descriptions coming soon *